# **Companion Website for "Constructing and Using Cell Type Populations of the Human Reference Atlas"**

Andreas Bueckle<sup>1</sup>\*, Bruce W. Herr II<sup>1</sup>\*, Lu Chen<sup>2</sup>, Daniel Bolin<sup>1</sup>, Danial Qaurooni<sup>1</sup>, Michael Ginda<sup>1</sup>, Yashcardhan Jain<sup>1</sup>, Aleix Puig Barbe <sup>3</sup>,Kristin Ardlie<sup>4</sup>, Fusheng Wang<sup>2</sup>, Katy Börner<sup>1</sup>\*

<sup>1</sup> Department of Intelligent Systems Engineering, Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47408, USA \
<sup>2</sup> Department of Computer Science and Department of Biomedical Informatics, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, 11794, NY, USA \
<sup>3</sup> European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD, UK\
<sup>4</sup> Broad Institute, Cambridge, 02142, MA, USA \
\* Corresponding authors\
[abueckle@iu.edu](mailto:abueckle@iu.edu)\
[bherr@iu.edu](mailto:bherr@iu.edu)\
[katy@iu.edu](katy@iu.edu)
 
The human body has an average total volume of approximately 66-77 liters (0.066-0.077 m³) for males and 56-66 liters (0.056-0.066 m³) for females. It contains about 37 trillion cells of about 2,300 cell types (CTs).The Human Reference Atlas (HRA) aims to provide a quantitative framework of the location and type of cells in the healthy adult male and female body. The HRA v2.3 contains 73 three-dimensional 3D reference objects representing 37 organs with 1,283 three-dimensional (3D) anatomical structures (AS); the goal of the HRA Cell Type Population effort (HRApop) described in this paper is to quantify the number and types of cells per 3D AS in the healthy adult male and female body. By using high-quality single-cell (sc) data, downloaded and annotated via reproducible, scalable workflows involving cell type annotation (CTann) tools, HRApop v1.0 compiles reference cell type populations for 73 3D ASs (112 if male and female are counted separately) in the human body. HRApop uses 662 high-quality datasets that were spatially registered in 230 3D spatial locations in 17 organs (31 if male and female are counted separately); for 558 sc-transcriptomics datasets with 11,042,750 cells. CTanns and their average biomarker expression values were computed using three different tools (Azimuth, CellTypist, and popV). To show generalizability of the HRApop method to spatial data, 104 sc-proteomics datasets with 16,576,863 cells were used to compute cell type populations for 16 3D AS in 31 male and female organs. In total, 27,619,613 cells were used to construct HRApop. HRApop is used to (1) predict cell type populations for 3D volumes in the human body that have sufficient data and (2) predict 3D origin volumes for a tissue block (TB) with known HRApop. HRApop quality and coverage is computed and visualized. All data and code is publicly available at [https://cns-iu.github.io/hra-cell-type-populations-supporting-information](https://cns-iu.github.io/hra-cell-type-populations-supporting-information).